Now that you already know
what inorganic growth
means and the differences with
organic growth, what we will
see are the different ways
or formulas that a company
has to grow in anorganic way.
Inorganic growth is what we have
on screen, it is the union between
two companies with one formula
or another, but it is the
union of a common goal.
As I said, there are different
formulas and they are basically four.
I don't want you to know the technical
details of each one, but you have
to know a little about what the
differences between each and what
they mean.
A strategic partnership is an
agreement between two companies
that has a common goal.
An adjunct is an agreement but
it also involves the creation of
a third company that controls the
two companies.
In a merger, the two companies are
merged and a new company
is created, and in the acquisition
one takes control of
the other.
We will look at each one
with some more detail and
with some examples.
And before I go on I think I
want to make sure you know this
term that is Mergers and Acquisitions
M & A.
It is the English acronym for
mergers of acquisitions that is
usually heard every day, so
you should know it.
Let's start with the acquisitions.
What is an Acquisition?
An acquisition is a transaction
by which one company takes control
of another.
What it does is buy the
whole or part of the shares
but it always involves taking
control.
Facebook bought WhatsApp.
WhatsApp is part of the Facebook
group and is controlled
by WhatsApp.
Microsoft is buying Skype.
The same thing.
Skype becomes a line of business
or part of the Microsoft Group.
Fusion is a different operation
because in the merger what happens
is that a new company is born.
We have two distinct companies
like Exxon and Mobile which
is the largest merger in
history, two US oil companies
that merge.
And what is happening?
The two companies disappear and a new
one is born.
This is not as we have seen before
that one takes control of another, no.
The two companies are merged.
Kraft and Heinz, then the same, a new one
is born, Kraft-Heinz is born.
Let's see what a Genventor is.
In the case of a Genventor,
a new company is also created.
The two companies are
not disappearing.
Create between the two create
a new company that Genventor creates
for a specific goal, creates for
something.
Now we will see.
The newly-founded company is usually
born with a temporary period.
Let us summarize.
Two different companies create a
new company that they participate in.
Both are involved in that new
company and that company has
a specific goal.
For example, there are Genventor
who have a specific goal.
If Inditex wants to enter the
Australian market, it can do
so completely organically with
its resources, arrive in Australia,
hire managers, hire
employees, launch new
stores, etc.
Or what he can do is rely on an
Australian company, as he did,
creating a Genventor that is a
new company of which Inditex
participated at 80%, which makes
it very easy to enter Australia.
Or the case of Fisher, which is a
pharmaceutical laboratory.
I wanted to enter China.
China is a very complex market.
Well, what he did is an agreement
with Hisun, a Chinese laboratory,
to sell mainly generics in
the Chinese market.
The two founded a new company
in which the two were involved
and that company was
located in China.
There are also industrial inventions.
What do I mean by industrial?
I have inventions that are
aimed at producing together,
for example a new product, Sony
Ericsson, is well known, which
has already disappeared.
Sony Ericsson was a Genventor in which,
obviously, Sony and Ericsson, two
technology manufacturers, were
involved, aimed at manufacturing
a range of smartphones or creating
a range of smartphones, a new
brand of smartphones.
What happens afterwards?
Sony later bought
Ericsson for $1.
5 trillion.
This is common to think that two
companies come to an agreement with
a specific goal, a Genventor is produced
that is like the first, is
the first step and subsequently
because one of the two in many
cases acquires the other or buys
the other, right?
And we go with the last of the
formulas, with the formula that
requires less integration, here neither
are new societies created nor are
they merged or bought, which is an
agreement between two companies.
A deal also aimed at specific
objectives, this is the same as Genventor,
has a specific purpose, for example
that it can be commercial, Starbucks
within its international expansion
strategy is supported by
local companies such as
in the case of Spain, Vips, with
which it comes to strategic
alliances that generate certain
synergies and certain
benefits.
It is easier if you are a US
company to grow supporting you
in local partners like in this
case Vips, it is easier so that
you get to and do it with your
resources in countries you do not know.
Barnes & Noble is a bookstore chain
in the United States and Barnes
& Noble wanted to incorporate within
their stores, they are very large,
wanted to incorporate the coffee
shop service, which is what he did,
came to an agreement, developed
a strategic alliance with Starbucks
by which Starbucks began
selling coffee within the Barnes
& Noble bookstores, creating
a joint product taking advantage
of a little of the brand
of the two.
Look, this probably sounds like, if
you remember a few years ago the
phones, Nokia smartphones began
to incorporate the operating system
of Windows Phone and this was the
fruit of a strategic alliance
between the two companies.
Microsoft acquired
Nokia for 7.2 billion.
There are also alliances between
competitors, it is not very usual,
it is less usual, it is easier
for an alliance between tables that
does not compete directly but sometimes
between competitors.
In this case, for example, Toyota and
BMW became an alliance to manufacture
a super sports car.
By the way, in many cases, competitors'
alliances are very difficult,
but they generate a lot of
tension and do not go well.
And finally, it is common that there are
strategic alliances between two companies
that have powerful brands and
that what they do is to generate
synergies between their brand and you
will understand it with examples.
Nike and Apple, for example, two
very leading brands, would say that
the most prestigious, the
most valued in their respective
sectors are in this case allied
with common services, common
products, etc.
Another one that I thought
was good for was the adidas.
Goodyear is a tyre manufacturer
that puts its brand on the
floor of adidas shoes
by reinforcing
the positioning of quality
and value by adidas shoes.